# Jo Before van Gogh Paradata

A brief summary of my work on this project is as follows: 1) translate and take notes on All for Vincent. 2) Read and take notes on Jo’s diaries. 3) Look into other sources to cross-check facts and fill in gaps. 4) Plot out and write the first episode, compiling information from across my sources. 5) Record the episode and request for Mara Haasnoot to record Jo’s diary excerpts within the episode. 6) Use Audacity to edit my various takes, Mara’s options for Jo, music, etc. 7) Write outlines for the other episodes. 8) Create the interactive map using Genial.ly for the first time. 9) Create the website and incorporate all of the elements including map, references, etc. 10) Upload podcast to Anchor.

I chose a podcast over any other medium because I wanted people to be able to passively interact with Jo’s life story. In my own experience, I find I take in information the best when my body is distracted with a menial task because it frees up my mind to get really lost in whatever I’m engaging with. That’s how I wanted people to hear about Jo: I not only wanted to offer them a comprehensive overview of her life; I wanted them to remember it, too. I also chose audio because it’s the digital medium that I’m the most comfortable working with. I wanted to have a good foundation to start with so that I had the confidence to know I could pull it off, allowing me the freedom to try more advanced techniques with recording, editing and producing.  Jo’s already been so overlooked by so many that I didn’t want my research going to waste in a medium I was hesitant with. My background in audio also allowed me to really throw myself into all the work I had to do translating All for Vincent- because I knew I didn’t have to worry about recording, editing and compiling the podcast, I had more time to perform thorough, sound research (sound as in well-rounded, not as in audio!). A lot of the work that I do is at the crossroads of performance and history anyways, and so including the performer portraying Jo also seemed like a natural addition. I opted for this instead of doing the ‘soundscape diary entries’ that I was going to bookend each episode with; this option seemed to make more sense for this podcast. 

One thing that was missing from the podcast that I wanted to incorporate was some element of interactivity. I went back and forth trying to incorporate something that would allow the listener to be an active participant in some way, but that’s one of the many ways that I could improve upon this podcast, which I intend to. It is in these ambiguous aspects of my podcast that I feel like I’m leaving the door open to improve upon it. I really wanted to create a page for the website with the bios and pictures of the people mentioned in the podcast, but that was going to be a huge amount of work. Taking Dr. Graham’s suggestion from after reading my Devlog 2, I feel like I might be able to incorporate the interactivity into my site/podcast through this element. He suggested creating something with twine that would allow the audience to interact with Jo’s diaries in different ways. Instead, I’d like to show the different connections between the people in Jo’s life and show their interconnectedness. 
 I chose to focus on Jo’s life before her work on Vincent’s life commenced because I figured that if people had already overlooked a contribution as remarkable as that, then they certainly weren’t going to take the time to get to know her ‘average’ life. However, I also chose this aspect of Jo’s life because I wanted to offer another perspective on it. So far as I know, Luijten’s research is the only comprehensive look at Jo’s life, and so I wanted to offer an English-speaking audience a look at her life.  I also needed to do research into Jo’s early life for my thesis anyways, so why not paint two olive trees with one brush, right?  
	Some last minute achievements that I discovered on this project were doing some major problem-solving on Audacity involving incorporating ffmpg into my ability to upload clips to Audacity, learning to use Genial.ly and teaching myself how to use Wix. These may not sound like great achievements, but for a technoklutz like me, I’m pretty proud of myself.
  
	My ultimate hope for this project is that I’ve provided a good enough foundation for people to take notice of Jo and the remarkable person that she was outside of her connection to the van Goghs. However, I also hope that the errors that I have undoubtedly made encourage people to do their own research into Jo’s life and unearth things that I have left out. I really hope, for example, that someone is able to discover more about Jo’s childhood than I was able to. My research included what I could find about it, but there are, of course, sources that I haven’t discovered that I hope others will bring to my attention. I also realize that my reverence of Jo colours my research and impression of her. I know that I tend to paint her in a very rosy image because of how much I admire her and the work that she did, so I am well aware that this may have caused me some oversights. I also recognize that podcasts are not the perfect medium for disseminating this information, and that presenting this information audibly may, in fact, make people forget the information I’ve presented more. 
	The last thing I wans to say about this project is that while it may be full of holes and improvements, I am exceptionally proud of it. It challenged me to create a research-based historical project that encouraged me to push my abilities with podcasting and tell the story of a woman I so greatly admire.
